---
layout: posts
title:  "Personal Blogging with Jekyll and Github Pages"
date:   2021-09-05 19:00:00 +1000
categories: update
classes: wide
---
With every project I worked on I would always at some point think, I should
really document that somewhere. Looking at the options out there for
personal blogging like Medium and others, they are all proprietary and
increasingly painful to consume if you want to forgo user accounts and other
tracking. I just wanted somewhere I could dump my thoughts and long form
write ups of projects.

My first thought was to revisit Ghost. When it launched Ghost was touted as
a personal blogging platform. The editing interface, based on Markdown was
superb, clean and focused. I was as close as I had seen to a just sit down
and start writing experience. The backend was easy to setup and there was a
hosted option.

Upon revisiting, I found things had changed a lot. The hosted plans were all
focused now on how many subscribed users you want and ways to acquire new
readers. For someone that doesn't even care if they get any visitors (since
this site is much more for keeping track of my thoughts) this adds no value.
You can still self host, however I quickly found there was a lot of features
you can't disable.

That let me to the Ghost forums looking for ways to disable certain
features, which others also wanted. Someone from the Ghost team basically
responded saying that personally blogging was of no interest to them and
they didn't want to put any effort in things that were not furthering their
mission of allowing writers to find and build an auduence. Fair enough, at
least we know where we stand, glad I didn't invest a lot of time in it.

So this lead me to start looking at static site generators. I really wanted
to be able to write things up in Markdown and just have it turned into a
website I can host somewhere cheap without a server, like AWS S3. Turns out
though it's even easier if you use Github pages and Jekyll.
